# Predict-the-rotor-bearing-temperature

Unplanned downtime of wind turbines can result in a significant loss of revenue and energy and can easily scale to millions of dollars a year. It is therefore pivotal that flagging the failure of components is made to prevent further loss and perform maintenance. It, however, involves the replacement of components and higher costs.
Condition-based monitoring systems rely on supervisory control and data acquisition systems to predict faults and get valuable insights into the turbine’s performance.

In this competition, We have normalized data of wind speed, power, and temperature data for multiple components of a wind turbine. We are looking to create a model to get an ideally functioning turbine’s expected rotor bearing temperature. The model will then be used to check the deviation of the actual rotor bearing temperature of the faulty turbine from the expected temperature.

[The competition on Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/ieee-victoris-10-filtration-phase/overview)

# Data Description
`id` - Unique identifier of the data
<br><br>`timestamp` - Timestamp at which the observation was recorded.
<br><br>`active_power_calculated_by_converter` - Active Power Calculated by the converter. Units in KW
<br><br>`active_power_raw` - Raw Active Power. Units in KW
<br><br>`ambient_temperature` - Environment Temperature reading from temperature sensor. Units in Degree Celsius
<br><br>`generator_speed` - Number of rotations by generator wheel per min. Units in RPM
<br><br>`generator_winding_temp_max` - Temperature of wire windings of generator. Units in Degree Celsius
<br><br>`grid_power10min_average` - Average(10 Min) Power generated. Units in KW
<br><br>`nc1_inside_temp` - Temperature inside Nacelle. Units in Degree Celsius
<br><br>`nacelle_temp` - Temperature outside Nacelle. Units in Degree Celsius
<br><br>`reactice_power_calculated_by_converter` - Secondary Power generated by wind turbines at output source. Units in KW
<br><br>`reactive_power` - Secondary Power generated by wind turbines at input source. Units in KW
<br><br>`wind_direction_raw` - Wind Direction. Units in Degrees
<br><br>`wind_speed_raw` - Average wind speed. Units in Meter/Second
<br><br>`wind_speed_turbulence` - Variation in Wind Speed. Units in Meter/Second
<br><br>`turbine_id` - Id of various turbines
<br><br>`Target` - Target Variable: Rotor bearing temperature. Units in Degree Celsius
